SEARCH PATH FOR MANUAL PAGES
       man uses a sophisticated method of finding manual page files, based  on  the
       invocation options and environment variables, the /private/etc/man.conf con-
       figuration file, and some built in conventions and heuristics.

       First of all, when the name argument  to  man  contains  a  slash  (/),  man
       assumes  it  is  a  file  specification  itself,  and  there is no searching
       involved.

       But in the normal case where name doesn't contain a slash,  man  searches  a
       variety  of directories for a file that could be a manual page for the topic
       named.

       If you specify the -M pathlist option, pathlist is a colon-separated list of
       the directories that man searches.

       If  you don't specify -M but set the MANPATH environment variable, the value
       of that variable is the list of the directories that man searches.

       If you don't specify an explicit path list with -M or MANPATH, man  develops
       its  own  path  list  based  on the contents of the configuration file /pri-
       vate/etc/man.conf.  The MANPATH statements in the configuration  file  iden-
       tify particular directories to include in the search path.

       Furthermore,  the MANPATH_MAP statements add to the search path depending on
       your command search path (i.e. your PATH environment  variable).   For  each
       directory  that  may  be in the command search path, a MANPATH_MAP statement
       specifies a directory that should be added to the  search  path  for  manual
       page  files.   man  looks  at  the  PATH variable and adds the corresponding
       directories to the manual page file search path.  Thus, with the proper  use
       of  MANPATH_MAP,  when  you issue the command man xyz, you get a manual page
       for the program that would run if you issued the command xyz.

       In addition, for each directory in the command search path (we'll call it  a
       "command  directory") for which you do not have a MANPATH_MAP statement, man
       automatically looks for a manual page directory "nearby" namely as a  subdi-
       rectory  in  the  command directory itself or in the parent directory of the
       command directory.

       You can disable the automatic "nearby" searches by  including  a  NOAUTOPATH
       statement in /private/etc/man.conf.

       In  each directory in the search path as described above, man searches for a
       file named topic.section, with an optional suffix on the section number  and
       possibly  a  compression  suffix.   If  it doesn't find such a file, it then
       looks in any subdirectories named manN or catN where N is the manual section
       number.   If the file is in a catN subdirectory, man assumes it is a format-
       ted manual page file (cat page).  Otherwise, man assumes it is  unformatted.
       In  either  case, if the filename has a known compression suffix (like .gz),
       man assumes it is gzipped.
       If you want to see where (or if) man would find the manual page for  a  par-
       ticular topic, use the --path (-w) option.